[DOCS] Split off ILM overview to a separate topic. (#51287)
elastic/elasticsearch: docs/reference/ilm/overview-ilm.asciidoc

[role="xpack"]
[testenv="basic"]
[[overview-index-lifecycle-management]]
== Index lifecycle management overview

++++
<titleabbrev>Overview</titleabbrev>
++++

You can create and apply {ilm-cap} ({ilm-init}) policies to automatically manage your indices 
according to your performance, resiliency, and retention requirements. 

> Index lifecycle policies can trigger actions such as rollover, shrink, freeze, and delete. 

Reviewer: I'm not sure a new user would know what these actions are or what they mean.
It may be more helpful to do one of the following:

* Remove this sentence
* Add links to the example actions
* Reword this to go into a bit more depth

Typically, you associate a lifecycle policy with an index template so it is applied   

> whenever an index is created from the template. 

Reviewer: I thought the way it worked was:

* You define a match pattern when you create an index template.
* When you create an index that matches the match pattern, the index template is applied.

This sort of implies you create indices from the template space, which I don't think is the case.

You can also apply a policy manually when you create an index.

Index lifecycle policies are most often used to manage time-series indices. 

> Time-series indices have a four stage lifecycle:

Reviewer: I think I'd frame this as "ILM is often used to manage hot-cold architecture. Hot-warm-cold architectures are common for time series data, such as logging or metrics."

In any case, the second sentence implies that time-series data always has a hot-cold architecture, which isn't necessarily true. I think it also confuses hot-cold architecture with time-series data. Hot-cold architecture is helpful in contexts outside of time-series data.

I'd also note that hot-cold architecture _can_ include up to four stages. For example, you could easily pull out the `warm` or `delete` stages.

* Hot--the index is actively being updated and queried.
* Warm--the index is no longer being updated, but is still being queried.
* Cold--the index is no longer being updated and is seldom queried. The
information still needs to be searchable, but it's okay if those queries are
slower.
* Delete--the index is no longer needed and can safely be deleted.

> A lifecycle policy governs how the index transitions through these stages and

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use a lifecycle policy to govern how an index transitions through these stages and
```

Author: I tweaked this a bit, but left the focus on the policy driving the transitions and actions.

> the actions that are performed on the index at each stage. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the actions performed at each stage. 
```

The policy can specify:

* The maximum size or age at which you want to roll over to a new index.
* The point at which the index is no longer being updated and the number of
primary shards can be reduced.
* When to force a merge to permanently delete documents marked for deletion.
* The point at which the index can be moved to less performant hardware.
* The point at which the availability is not as critical and the number of
replicas can be reduced.
* When the index can be safely deleted.

For example, if you are indexing metrics data from a fleet of ATMs into
Elasticsearch, you might define a policy that says:

. When the index reaches 50GB, roll over to a new index.
. Move the old index into the warm stage, mark it read only, and shrink it down
to a single shard.
. After 7 days, move the index into the cold stage and move it to less expensive
hardware.
. Delete the index once the required 30 day retention period is reached.

[IMPORTANT]
===========================

> {ilm} does not support mixed-version clusters. 

Reviewer: We should probably explain what a mixed-version cluster is.
